In this video, we are going
to start learning about Cisco.
First we will learn about cisco devices.
There are so many devices provided by cisco, like
switch, router, firewall, access point, wireless
controller, and others. But in this course, we
are going to focus on cisco switch and routers.
Here we can see that we have cisco
router, and this is a cisco switch.
The main different between cisco router and cisco
switch is in the number of ports. In the cisco router
we usually just have some port like this.
But we will have many more port in cisco switch.
So to connecting many PC,
we will use cisco switch,
and then to connecting different block
subnet, or different room, we will use a router.
I hope you remember the function of
switch and router that we already learn
in the previous video. If you forgot,
try to rewatch the earlier video again.
Okay let’s back here, to configure a cisco
devices, either router or switch, we will
use console port. Here we can see that we have
a console port, and this is similar to LAN port,
but if we see here, there is a blue
title that say this is a console port.
And in the switch, the console port
is in the back, we can see it here.
To remote the cisco devices, we
will need a console cable like this.
The first end is just similar like RJ45,
and the other end is a serial port.
This one that similar to RJ45 will be connected
to the console port in the cisco router
or switch. And then the serial port
will be connected to our computer.
But now, I think most of computer don’t
have a serial port. So in this case,
we will need a serial to USB converter like
this. So the serial port of console cable will
be connected to serial port in the converter,
and the USB will be connected to our computer.
If the console cable already connected to
the router or switch, then the serial port
is connected to the converter and from the
converter also connected to our computer,
then we can open a device manager in the
computer. Here in the device manager we will
see serial port like this. We need to remember
the number here, in this case the number is COM3.
Next, we will need an application called
putty to remote the cisco devices.
If you don’t have putty yet, you can download
it from putty.org. Here is the display of putty,
we can choose serial, and then here we can put
the COM number like we see in the device manager,
in this case, the COM number is COM3.
After that we can just open the putty, and then
we can just configure cisco router and switch.
Okay this is how we can configuring the cisco
router and switch. But in this course, we are not
going to use cisco real device, but we will use
software simulation, which is Cisco Packet Tracer.
With Cisco Packet Tracer, we can learn
many thing about cisco without buying
any cisco devices. And don’t worry, if
you are familiar with Cisco Packet Tracer,
you will be able to configuring
the real device of cisco.
Okay I think enough for this video. In the
next video we are going to start learning
about cisco with Cisco Packet Tracer.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!